The combat system is going to look like this:

1. In the main loop, check player.move.
This returns true whenever the player moves 1 grid cell.
game.tick_encounter is called.

2. In game.tick_encounter, check the number of steps until encounter.
game.encounter is called.

3. In game.encounter, creatures are created.
This should check the current area for encounter information.
Creatures should fetched from the storage.
The storage should use json files to get creature information.
This is either done at setup or on demand.
For the moment, I initialize creatures in game.encounter.
A combat_input object is created.
A combat object is created with the combat_input.
A fadeout and fadeout_direction is set.

4. In tick_fadeout, fadeout level is changed each frame.

5. In game.draw_combat, the combat map and creatures are drawn.
game.draw_combat_ui is called, drawing the ui.
The fadeout_direction is checked.
If not 0, the fade overlay is drawn with the fadeout level.
If fadeout is 0, combat should start.
I do this by switching the combat_input mode to INACTIVE.
The INACTIVE mode signals that no input is accepted
but that the combat logic is allowed to continue.
I may want to switch to a better name.
I will initialize combat_input with the PREPARATION mode.
It signals input is not accepted
and that combat logic is paused.

CHANGES
Now that I have animation, I'd better make use of it.
The fadeout should be an animation, meaning it will pause the combat logic.
This should eliminate the need for game.tick_fadeout.
I shouldn't place unnecessary logic in game.draw_combat.
I should change the combat_input mode using animation callback.
Anyways, first I need to ensure my combat is running properly.

MORE CHANGES
I should add a message field.
The message field should replace the combat menu.
when input is not accepted.
I should add an combat_input mode for this.

6. In the main loop, I call game.process_combat.
Game process combat can only proceed if there are no animations.
I update animations in game.process_combat
but I can do that from the main loop instead.
Given that the mode is INACTIVE, game.process combat calls combat.process_turn.

7. In combat.process_turn, combat should progress by one step.
First, all enemies decide their actions.
The combat_input mode is set to MENU.
This activates the combat main menu.

8. In the main loop, handle_events is called.
This forwards to handle_combat_inputs as needed.
In handle_combat_inputs, the game listens to keys
and reacts according to the combat_input mode.
As a result, the combat_input mode may change.
When a player action has been determined,
I call combat.select_action.
This should change the combat phase.
Then I change the mode changes to INACTIVE.

9. Now, from game.process_combat,
combat.process_turn should be called.
As the phase has changed to USE_ACTION,
combat.process turn must find the next unit to act
and perform the action.
The Combat instance should store relevant information about the action.

10. Now, in game.process_combat,
the stored information should be processed.
This will probably start new animations.

11. As the animation handler contains ongoing animations,
game.process_combat must wait.
The animation handler should be called from the main loop each frame.

12. As animation is complete,
game.process can call combat.process_turn.
This repeats previous steps until all units have acted.

13. Now, combat.process_turn should switch phase to END_TURN.
This causes all active effect to tick down.

14. game.process_combat may create animations
in response to effect tick down.
Multiple animations may start at the same time.

CHANGES
More precisely, I may want slight offsets to prevent overlapping animations.
The animation handler should schedule animations in a smart way.
I don't have to implement this yet since effects are an advanced part of combat.

15. combat.process_turn goes on to the NEXT_ROUND phase.
This replenishes all unit actions.
It doesn't do much and could be combined with END_TURN.
No animations are expected.
combat.process_turn enters the DECIDE_ACTION phase.

16. In DECIDE_ACTION, all enemies select their actions.
The combat_input switches mode to MENU,
allowing the player to select an action.
We've returned to a previous step and combat continues to loop.

17. The combat must regularily check for defeated units.
game.process_combat must regularily pick up on this.
It shouldn't check when there's an ongoing animation.
When any unit is defeated, a death animation should play.
When animation ends, the unit is removed from the combat field.
This should ensure units are not removed prematurely,
ruining the tension.

18. When all enemies have been defeated,
combat should switch to the VICTORY phase.
game.process_combat should pick up on this.
If the player has been defeated,
combat should switch to DEFEAT phase.

CHANGES
Victory should trigger some kind of message,
followed by a fadeout animation.
Defeat should trigger a message,
followed by a return to the main menu.

MORE CHANGES
I don't even have a main menu!
But there's no rush.
I can just quit the program and start a new game. 